---
layout: post
title: Xiaomi
date: 2018-04-04 18:00:00
summary: A Chinese company that is killing it.
categories: technology
---

I used to live in Hunan province, which is considered Southern China. The culture is pretty different compared to where we are now in the North. We lived there for over two years and I had never once heard about a company called [Xiaomi (小米)](https://www.mi.com/index.html). I wish I did.

It wasn't until I was talking with my new coworkers that they told me about it. They sell "lifestyle" products. They have a large selection of products, from laptops and smart phones, to power strips and computer peripheries, to batteries and tooth brushes. They do a darn fine job, too.

It has recently gained a lot of attention for its [Mix](https://www.mi.com/mix2s/) phone. A near-bezel-less ceramic body smart phone. It's _gorgeous_, and surprisingly well priced. In fact, everything is well priced. They even have a "cheaper" brand (like Epiphone/Squire is to Gibson/Fender) which offers even cheaper prices for its products.

Growing up, "Made in China" often had the connotation of something being cheap and poorly made. In some cases, it's true. We export the labor to a country where they're willing to work for far less than America is and with cheap materials. Some of the "made in China" products made for the Chinese is extraordinarily poor quality. It does not last long.

That's one thing that makes Xiaomi so interesting. They do export some things to the US and India, but not much. They pretty much sell exclusively in Mainland China, which made it surprising why I had never heard of them.

The first thing I bought from them was a power strip. It was 50 yuan (less than $10). It arrived the same day I ordered it. Great build quality and packaging, especially for something so simple. I then ordered a router for 150 yuan (less than $25!) and two "repeaters." Again, they arrived faster than anything I've bought on Amazon and were incredibly simple to set up. Once the router was configured (5 mins), I just plugged the repeaters into the router's usb port and it automatically configured them. I later bought another Xiaomi router and use that as a wired extender now. Setting that up also took no time at all. It configured the whole subnet mask and IP stuff for me, which is great because that stuff is... 😬

I have since bought a smart plug adapter, a TV box (Apple TV type thing) and recently an air purifier. They are doing IoT (Internet of things) amazingly well. Better than anything I've seen. The air purifier literally look 15 seconds to configure in my Xiaomi Home Android app. I can see all of my "things" from the app, control them, configure them, organize them, turn them off/on from inside and _outside_ my home. I can see who is connected to my routers from anywhere. I can turn the smart plug or air purifier on and off from anywhere.

I haven't used their Android ROM called MIUI, but it doesn't look bad. In the future, I may even buy one of their aluminum body laptops for around $500 and put Linux on it. Their build quality is amazing. Sturdy and well built and a price that is hard to beat. There stuff just works as you would expect it to at an amazing price point and great quality. Who knows all the data they're collecting about me, but everybody else is too so what can you do.

They definitely take some packaging ideas from Apple, but they are unique in their own way. Overall, I couldn't be more impressed with this company. I hope it expands to the US to put pressure on the tech companies there. They could create some great competition in the US market, as well as some fresh ideas.

They even partnered up with Segway to create the [Ninebot](https://www.mi.com/scooter/). It is amazing. I've had it close to a year and have rode it over 150km. It's super fun, and I also have a [great memory](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_qicpBnroh8) of the first time I tried to ride it. I'm a lot better at it now.

I really love this company and hope they continue to surprise me with the things they can do. If you haven't check out all the products they make and tell me it's not crazy.
